# Power of neutrality tests for detecting natural selection.

## Requirement

Scripts were developed under the following environment.

Python 3.8.5
Libraries
- numpy 1.21.2
- pandas 1.4.1

Other softwares
- *ms* (Hudson RR. Bioinformatics 2002. [software page](http://home.uchicago.edu/rhudson1/source/mksamples.html))
- *mbs* (Teshima and Innan. Bioinformatics 2009. [software page](https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2105-10-166))
- *rehh* (Gautier et al. Molecular ecology resources 2017. [software page](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/rehh/index.html))

For details about the installation method and usage of these software, please refer to the original software pages and manuals therein.


## Contents
Sample sequences were generated by performing *mbs* and *ms*. Tests statistics were calculated by in-house scripts and *rehh*.
Scripts used in the manuscripts are available in the following folders:

- constant_pop
  - README file (.md file)
  - Scripts to generate null distributions of tests statistics under constant population (.py files)
  - Scripts to calculate power under constant population (.py files)  
  - These scripts were used to generate Figure 1, 2 and S3.

- demography
  - README file (.md file)
  - Scripts to generate null distributions of tests statistics under demographic model (.py files)
  - Scripts to calculate power under demographic model (.py files)  
  - These scripts were used to generate Figure 3, 4 and S4~7.

- ssv
  - README file (.md file)
  - Scripts to calculate power when selection acts on standing variations (.py file)
  - These scrits were used to generate Figuer 5 and S8.

- human_demo
  - README file (.md file)
  - Scripts to generate null distribution of tests statistics under human demographic models (.py files)
  - Scripts to calculate power under human demographic models (.py files)
  - These scripts were used to generate Figure 6, 7, 8 and S9.
