## Scripts in this folder
1. calc_sfs_null_africanpop.py
2. calc_sfs_null_europeanpop.py
3. calc_sfs_null_asianpop.py
4. calc_sfs_power_africanpop_mage.py
5. calc_sfs_power_europeanpop_mage.py
6. calc_sfs_power_asianpop_mage.py
7. calc_sfs_power_africanpop_con_on_freq.py
8. calc_sfs_power_europeanpop_con_on_freq.py
9. calc_sfs_power_asianpop_con_on_freq.py
10. calc_ehh_null_africanpop.py
11. calc_ehh_null_europeanpop.py
12. calc_ehh_null_asianpop.py
13. calc_ehh_power_africanpop_mage.py
14. calc_ehh_power_europeanpop_mage.py
15. calc_ehh_power_asianpop_mage.py
16. calc_ehh_power_africanpop_con_on_freq.py
17. calc_ehh_power_europeanpop_con_on_freq.py
18. calc_ehh_power_asianpop_con_on_freq.py
19. calc_sfs_power_asianpop_ssv.py
20. calc_ehh_power_asianpop_ssv.py
21. calc_sfs_null_euasianpop.py
22. calc_ehh_null_euasianpop.py
23. calc_sfs_power_euasianpop_mage.py
24. calc_ehh_power_euasianpop_mage.py


## Directory in this folder
1. my_module
    - Scripts
      - backward_trajectory.py
      - forward_trajectory.py
      - mbslib.py
      - mstools.py

## How to use
- Calculate power of sfs-based tests under human demographic model (Schaffner et al. 2005)
  - scripts
    - calc_sfs_null_africanpop.py
    - calc_sfs_null_europeanpop.py
    - calc_sfs_null_asianpop.py
    - calc_sfs_power_africanpop_mage.py
    - calc_sfs_power_europeanpop_mage.py
    - calc_sfs_power_asianpop_mage.py
    - calc_sfs_power_africanpop_con_on_freq.py
    - calc_sfs_power_europeanpop_con_on_freq.py
    - calc_sfs_power_asianpop_con_on_freq.py

  - usage
    - script1, 2, 3: please modify parameters of the main function and execute.
      - path_to_data(str): path to sample sequences data generated by *ms*  
      - percentile_dir(str): directory of output file (percentile data of sfs-based statistics)
      - For other demographic parameters in detail, please refer to manuscripts.
    - script4 ~ 9: please modify parameters of the main function and execute.
      - mutation_ages(list): age of derived allele
      - sel_advantages(list): selection coefficient
      - data_num(list): parameter for parallel computing. [1: n_cpu/2] is recommended.
      - data_dir(str): directory of sample sequences data generated by *mbs*
      - save_dir(str): directory of statistics data
      - power_dir(str): directory of output file (power data of sfs-based tests)
      - file_name(str): file name of output file (power data of sfs_based statistics)
      - percentile_data_dir(str): path to percentile data of sfs-based statistics
      - For other demographic parameters in detail, please refer to manuscripts.
  - outputs
    - percetile data(csv format) for each model are generated in percetile_data_dir. (output of script1, 2, 3)
    - power data(csv format) for each demographic model are generated in power_dir. (output of script 4 ~ 9)

- Calculate power of sfs-based tests under human demographic model (Schaffner et al. 2005)
  - scripts
    - calc_ehh_null_africanpop.py
    - calc_ehh_null_europeanpop.py
    - calc_ehh_null_asianpop.py
    - calc_ehh_power_africanpop_mage.py
    - calc_ehh_power_europeanpop_mage.py
    - calc_ehh_power_asianpop_mage.py
    - calc_ehh_power_africanpop_con_on_freq.py
    - calc_ehh_power_europeanpop_con_on_freq.py
    - calc_ehh_power_asianpop_con_on_freq.py

  - usage
    - script10, 11, 12: please modify parameters of the main function and execute.
      - path_to_data(str): path to sample sequences data generated by *mbs*  
      - percentile_dir(str): directory of output file (percentile data of ehh-based statistics)
      - For other demographic parameters in detail, please refer to manuscripts.
    - script13 ~ 18: please modify parameters of the main function and execute.
      - mutation_ages(list): age of derived allele
      - sel_advantages(list): selection coefficient
      - data_num(list): parameter for parallel computing. [1: n_cpu/2] is recommended.
      - data_dir(str): directory of sample sequences data generated by *mbs*
      - ehh_data_dir(str): directory of statistics data
      - power_dir(str): directory of output file (power data of ehh tests)
      - file_name(str): file name of output file (power data of ehh statistics)
      - percentile_data_dir(str): path to percentile data of ehh statistics
      - For other demographic parameters in detail, please refer to manuscripts.
  - outputs
    - percetile data(csv format) for each model are generated in percetile_data_dir. (output of script10, 11, 12)
    - power data(csv format) for each demographic model are generated in power_dir. (output of script 13 ~ 18)

- Calculate power of sfs and haplotype-based tests for ssv under E.Asian model (Schaffner et al. 2005)
  - scripts
    - calc_sfs_power_asianpop_ssv.py
    - calc_ehh_power_asianpop_ssv.py
  - usage
    - script19, 20: please modify parameters of the main function and execute.
      - mutation_ages(list): age of derived allele
      - sel_advantages(list): selection coefficient
      - ehh_data_dir(str): directory of statistics data
      - save_dir(str): directory of sfs-based statistics data
      - power_dir(str): directory of output file (power data of both sfs and haplotype-based tests)
      - file_name(str): file name of output file (power data of both sfs and haplotype-based tests)
      - percentile_data_dir(str): path to percentile data of each statistics
      - For other demographic parameters in detail, please refer to manuscripts.

- Calculation power of sfs and haplotype-based tests under European and Asian model (Li et al. 2011)
  - scripts
    - calc_sfs_null_euasianpop.py
    - calc_ehh_null_euasianpop.py
    - calc_sfs_power_euasianpop_mage.py
    - calc_ehh_power_euasianpop_mage.py
  - usage
    - script21, 22: please modify parameters of the main function and execute.
      - path_to_data(str): path to sample sequences data generated by *ms* and *mbs*
      - percentile_dir(str): directory of output file (percentile data of sfs and haplotype-based statistics)
      - For other demographic parameters in detail, please refer to manuscripts.
    - script23, 24: please modify parameters of the main function and execute.
      - mutation_ages(list): age of derived allele
      - sel_advantages(list): selection coefficient
      - ehh_data_dir(str): directory of statistics data
      - save_dir(str): directory of sfs-based statistics data
      - power_dir(str): directory of output file (power data of both sfs and haplotype-based tests)
      - file_name(str): file name of output file (power data of both sfs and haplotype-based tests)
      - percentile_data_dir(str): path to percentile data of each statistics
      - For other demographic parameters in detail, please refer to manuscripts.
